Our next topic is trustless oracles.
Now oracles that are unknown in the public and they
may or may not be malicious are called trustless oracles.
So all oracles that are on the public blockchain are inherently trustless.
Although you might have a business relationship with
them or you might know them personally.
Ultimately, from the perspective of the blockchain and the smart contract,
it is a trustless relationship.
Now in the scenario of trustless oracles,
what you do is you eliminate a single point of failure
by relying on many oracles instead of a single one.
Now this requires considerable measures to minimize the trust and protect from attacks.
So that's where we get into the topic of trust minimizing vectors.
So when you have a large number of oracles,
what you want to do is minimize the amount of trust that you place in any single oracle.
So there are three strategies you can employ to do that.
The first one is to use multiple data sources.
So ultimately, your oracle is going to rely on a third party API or APIs to fetch data,
and if it's possible,
it would be a good idea to have multiple oracles
accessing multiple data sources to ensure that there is no single point of failure.
You may have a single data source because it's constrained,
perhaps it's just a single supplier or single service that provides it.
In which case, it's still good to have multiple oracles that access
that single service and provide you with
the data so that if a single oracle goes offline,
you have the ability to resort to others.
Now having said that,
it's important to consider that this is not a scenario like you have in web servers,
etc, where you have things like failover, etc.
When we talk about multiple oracles in the context of blockchain,
we literally are talking about multiple oracles providing
the data to the smart contract and the smart contract then arbitrating
between those data inputs and making
a decision based on pre-defined rules about what data is accurate and what is not.
The last way that is a trust minimizing vector is the concept of staking.
The concept basically means that if you are going
to rely on an oracle and try and trust that,
your trust level can go significantly higher if that oracle has put up some funds;
whether it's cryptocurrency or fiat currency,
and has staked so that they have skin in the game.
So if that scenario happens,
then it's less likely and the oracle is disincentivized to create problems,
do malicious activities, etc.
So overall these three techniques;
multiple data sources, multiple oracles,
and staking can help you create a scenario where you
minimize the trust you need to place in any single entity.
Let's now take a quiz.
What are some approaches to mitigate the lack of trust inherent in public oracles?